Starting the application 
------------------------

The application is delivered as an executable JAR file called runme.jar. It
can be started from the command line using the command:

java -jar <path_to_runme.jar> [<mode>]

where "mode" is an optional command line flag specifying the mode the
application is to run in. The valid modes are:

* "server" - indicates that the database server will run (in the rest of this
  document this will be referred to as server mode);
* "alone" - indicates that the GUI client will run and use a local database
  (in the rest of this document this will be referred to as standalone mode);
* if no mode flag is specified the GUI client will run and connect to a
  database server over the network (in the rest of this document this will be
  referred to as client mode).

Examples of starting the application:

1. If the runme.jar file is located at C:\applications\runme.jar on a Windows
machine, this command will run the application in server mode:

java -jar C:\applications\runme.jar server

2. If the runme.jar file is located at /home/applications/runme.jar on a Unix
machine, this command will run the application in standalone mode:

java -jar /home/applications/runme.jar alone

3. If the runme.jar file is located in the current working directory, this
command will run the application in client mode:

java -jar runme.jar


Configuring and launching the application
-----------------------------------------

The first screen that appears when the application is run is the Launcher
window. This window is used for configuring and launching the application. Its
contents differ depending on the application mode:

Server mode: 
In server mode the location of the database file and the port on which to
publish the database server must be selected.

Standalone mode: 
In standalone mode the location of the database file must be selected.

Client mode: 
In client mode the address and port of the database server to connect to must
be selected.

After making these selections clicking the OK button will save the
configuration and launch the application. The application configuration is
saved to a file called "suncertify.properties" in the current working
directory. The next time the application is started the Launcher window will
be pre-populated with the configuration saved in this file.

What happens next depends on the application mode:

Server mode: 
In server mode the application does not display a GUI after the configuration
stage, rather it waits to service remote connections from clients. The server
application will remain running as long as the console window from which the
application was started is not closed or the server application process
terminated in some other way (by pressing Crtl-C in the console window, for
example).

Standalone and client modes: 
In standalone and client modes the main application window will now be
displayed. The features of this window are described in the following
sections.


Searching for contractors 
-------------------------

The main application window is entitled Search Contractors and it presents two
text fields to enter search criteria: one to match on contractor name and the
other to match on contractor location. A search is performed by clicking on
the Search button, selecting Search from the Edit menu or pressing the Ctrl-G
keyboard shortcut. The following types of search are available:

* leaving both criteria fields empty will return all the contractors in the
  database;
* entering a name and leaving the location empty will search for contractors
  exactly matching the name criteria (regardless of location);
* entering a location and leaving the name empty will search for contractors
  exactly matching the location criteria (regardless of name);
* entering both a name and a location will search for contractors where both
  the name and location criteria are matched exactly.

The search results are displayed in a table underneath the criteria fields.
The number of matching contractors and the search criteria of the last search
are displayed in the status bar at the bottom of the main window.

The search criteria can be cleared by selecting Clear Criteria from the Edit
menu or using the Ctrl-L keyboard shortcut.


Booking a contractor 
--------------------

The owner column in the search results table is displayed differently
depending on whether that contractor is available for booking or not. If the
contractor has already been booked the ID of the customer who made the booking
will be displayed. If the contractor is available for booking a button marked
Book will be displayed.

To book a contractor, click the Book button in the row for that contractor. A
window entitled Book Contractor is shown prompting for the entry of the
8-digit ID of the customer making the booking. Only digits may be entered and
the full 8 digits must be entered to make the booking. After entering the
customer ID click OK to make the booking or click Cancel to cancel the
booking. When the booking has completed successfully the owner column of the
row in the table will be updated with the customer's ID number.

It is possible that the booking process may fail because the contractor has
been modified or deleted in the database by another user. In either of these
cases, a warning dialog will be shown prompting the user to refresh the search
results to see the latest contractor information.


Error reporting 
---------------

If the application encounters any errors, an error dialog will be shown giving
information about the error where possible. If the error cannot be recovered
from, the error dialog will inform the user of this and the application will
exit when the error dialog is closed. Any errors are logged to the console
window from which the application was started.


Shutting-down the application 
-----------------------------

The recommended way of shutting-down the an application running in server mode
is by pressing Crtl-C in the console window from which the application was
started. An application running in standalone or client mode can be shutdown
by clicking the standard operating system close window button or by selecting
Exit from the File menu.
